Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.

*A programming language is  a set of commands, instructions, and other syntax use to create a software program.


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.

*First JDK stands for Java Development Kit , it contains a suite of tools
Java compiler : this tool is used to compile the source code from a java file to a bytecode or file.class
JVM : it the Java Virtual Machine used to translate the byteCode and execute it ,
the JVM is composed of different components a class loader , a code verifier and a JIT (Just in time running)



What is IDE?
A.
*An IDE is an Integrated Development Environment that is used to write the source code of a programming language.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.
*Eclipse,
*IntelliJ
*NetBeans


Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.
*It starts from the IDE where we write ou source code file.java .
*compile this source code by using java compiler or javac the result of that is a byteCode or a file.class.
*The byteCode is passing throw the JVM wich use a a class loader to upload it , next verify the code finally
execute it with the JIT (Just in time) compiler.


what is class?
A.
*A Class is a blueprint of an object.

What is object?
A.
*An object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A.
*The entry point of application is the main method.

Why main is static?
A
*main is static because it the entry point of the program so
the program run faster than if the main is not static
if not we have to instantiate the class where the main method is .
so this process takes much more time.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.
*java.lang.Object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.
*
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.
*No we can't ,we need to implement the interface and extends the abstract class.

what is Access Specifier?
A.
*Access Specifier Java Access Specifiers regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java.
These Specifiers determine whether a field or method in a class, can be used or invoked by another method in another
class or sub-class

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.
*OOP stands for Object Oriented Programming.
-Abstraction : implementation hiding.
-Inheritance :
-Polymorphism :
-Encaplsulation: data hiding


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.
*

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.
*API is Application Programming Interface that is a list of all classes that are part
of the java development kit.
-Scanner , BufferedReader, FileReader, LinkedList , HashMap , String ,

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.
*No ,
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









